Bangla Spell Checker
----------------------------------------------------------------------
WHAT IS "Bangla Spell Checker"?

Bangla Spell Checker is a complete spell checker for Bangla language.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Society for Natural Language Technology Research

About Us
English is still the primary medium of interaction with computers.
Consequently, a large section of the  population in India  is not
able to reap the benefits of the technology. Though the issue  of
localization of interface has  been discussed in different  forum,
the goal is yet to be achieved.

In spite of the fact that desktop publishing has come of age for
Bangla and other Indian languages and there are several software
available for Bangla, the problem persists due to the absence of 

      i) standardization of Bangla encoding, 
     ii) encoding compliant font design,
    iii) availability of compliant keyboard layouts etc.

The lack of adherence to standard does not allow  the  computing
activities  in  Indian  languages  to  be  inter-operable across
computing platforms.

In order to make the computing activities Bangla compatible,  it
is essential to establish  a proper standard. Though a number of
organizations have taken up language  processing activities, the
necessity  of  establishing  proper coherence among them is very
much felt, in order to deliver useful products.

Language Technology  research  has  to  focus  on two components,
written text as well as spoken language .Besides text processing,
speech generation and recognition are two very  important  areas
in  which  research  and  development  have  to be focused. This 
development will not only result in  more natural human-computer 
interfaces, but will also empower the physically challenged like 
those with speech impairment and  visual  impairment, to benefit 
from computer technology.

The Society  for  Natural Language Technology Research  has been
formed to address the above mentioned requirements.  The society 
has   been  seeded  by  the  Govt.  of  West  Bengal  (Dept.  of 
Information  Technology)  with  initial   funding  and  support.
Operationally, the society aims to carry out its activities in a
multipolar    manner,    involving  other  academic and research 
institutes as well as industries.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER QUESTIONS

If you have questions regarding Bangla Spell Checker or licenses send
electronic mail to info@nltr.org.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
ADDRESSES

Registered Office :
  	Department of Information Technology
  	Govt. of West Bengal
  	4, Camac Street, 7th Floor
  	Kolkata-700016

Working Office :
  	Module 130
  	SDF Building, Salt Lake
  	Sector-V, Kolkata 700091
	
Phone No. : +91 33 65332223
Email: info@nltr.org
URL: http://www.nltr.org
----------------------------------------------------------------------                      
Dated: 02 January 2015

copyright (c) 2015 SNLTR.

                         




